
<FILES>
</FILES>
<CLASSNOTES>
    # Clase 85 MoveIt2 API
    <TERMINAL1>
    </TERMINAL1>
    <TERMINAL2>
    </TERMINAL2>
    <TERMINAL3>
    </TERMINAL3>
    <TERMINAL4>
    </TERMINAL4>
</CLASSNOTES>
<TRANSCRIPTION>
We are finally ready to start our node that uses the movie API to set a goal for our robot, plan a trajectory, and then execute the planned trajectory. To execute all of these, let's open a new terminal. Let's go to the workspace and let's build it with Qualcomm Build. Then in a new window of the terminal. Let's start by launching the gazebo simulation of the robot. So let's source the file setup bash. And let's launch with Ros2 launch from the Arduino board description the gazebo launch dot Pi. So now this is starting the gazebo simulation of our robot in the empty word perfect. So here we go. Now let's make this terminal a little bit bigger as we are going to start also the control system of the robot. So in a new window again let's source the file setup dot bash. And then let's launch with rocket to launch from the Arduino bot controller. The control system. So the controller dot launch dot pi. So let's press enter. Perfect. And so with this we are starting the control system of the robot. And so we get the confirmation that both the arm controller and the gripper controller are properly running. Now if we open also a new window of the terminal we can finally start also move it. So again let's source the file setup dot bash and let's launch move it. So with Ros2 launch and from the Arduino bot move it package, let's start the move it dot launchpad. So let's press enter. And this is starting now the move it interface. And also we can see that here we have the service window that we configured and used in the previous lesson to move the robot. But now we are not going to use it as we want to move our robot using the node that we created. And so using the C plus plus or the Python API. So in order to start our code, let's open a new terminal. And here again let's source the workspace. And now I'm going to start the C plus plus implementation of the Python API. So I'm going to try to move our robot using the Python API that we developed in the C plus plus node. So I'm going to use the command Ros2 run. And from the Arduino robot CP examples. Let's start the simple move it interface. So this will start the C plus plus implementation. Otherwise if you want to start the Python implementation here, I will show you the command that you need to execute. And so again this is the Ros2 launch this time because for the Python implementation we developed a launch file. And from the Arduino bot Pi examples we want to start the simple move it interface to launch dot pi. So this one here starts the Python interface. So the node that uses the movie Python APIs to move the robot, and instead this one here that I'm going to use in this lesson starts the Cplusplus implementation. So let's close this terminal and let's instead launch this node here. So let's run this node here for the Arduino bot CP examples. So let's press enter. And as we can see as we press enter our robot moves in the simulated environment. So we can see that it reaches the desired position. And also the gripper now is opening. And so this is exactly the configuration that we have set in our Cplusplus node. So we wanted just the base. So this one here the motor of the base to rotate 90 degrees. And so the robot moved from this initial configuration to this one. And we also wanted the gripper to be opened. And so as we can see everything worked. So move it was able to plan the trajectory to the desired goal and also to execute it.

</TRANSCRIPTION>